---
title: "OpenROAD-Assistant: An Open-Source Large Language Model for Physical Design Tasks"
collection: publications 
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024-09-09-mlcad
date: 2024-09-09
venue: 'ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Machine Learning for CAD (MLCAD)'
author: 'U. Sharma*, <strong>B.-Y. Wu*</strong>, S. R. D. Kankipati, V. A. Chhabria, and A. Rovinski <span style="color: red;">(co-primary author)</span>'
#citation: 'U. Sharma, B.-Y. Wu, S. R. D. Kankipati, V. A. Chhabria, and A. Rovinski, “OpenROAD-Assistant: An Open-Source Large Language Model for Physical Design Tasks“, Proc. MLCAD, 2024.'
---
****

**Authors**

U. Sharma*, **B.-Y. Wu\***, S. R. D. Kankipati, V. A. Chhabria, and A. Rovinski <span style="color: red;">(co-primary author)</span>

**Abstract**

Large language models (LLMs) have shown significant potential in serving as domain-specific chatbots. Recently, these models have emerged as powerful tools for chip design, providing both natural language responses and script generation for domain-specific inquiries. Previous work has demonstrated the effectiveness of LLMs in assisting with physical design automation; however, these approaches often rely on proprietary tools, APIs, technologies, and designs. As a result, access to these models is extremely limited, particularly for new chip designers who could greatly benefit from a design assistant. This paper introduces OpenROAD-Assistant, an open-source chatbot for OpenROAD that relies only on public data and responds to queries in either prose or Python script using the OpenROAD APIs. OpenROAD-Assistant leverages the Llama3-8B foundation model and employs retrieval-aware fine-tuning (RAFT) to respond to physical design-specific questions for OpenROAD. Notably, OpenROAD-Assistant outperforms other foundational models such as ChatGPT3.5, ChatGPT4, Code Llama, Claude3, and other ablation study baselines on the measured metrics (pass@k for scripting and BERTScore/BARTScore for question-answering). OpenROAD-Assistant achieves a 77% pass@1 score, 80% pass@3 score for scripting, and it achieves a 98% BERTScore and 96% BARTScore on question-answering.

<a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3670474.3685960" style="text-decoration: none;">Download Paper</a>